Bid to hold FSCD 2023 in Tallinn, Estonia

We propose to organize FSCD 2023 in Tallinn.

Here are our plans.

* Conference Chair:

  Niccolò Veltri, researcher in the Logic and Semantics Group,
  Department of Software Science, Tallinn University of Technology
  (https://niccoloveltri.github.io/)

* Local Committee:

  Members from the Logic and Semantics Group (https://cs.ioc.ee/lsg/)
  and the Support Unit of the Department of Software Science

  Tarmo Uustalu, lead research scientist (http://www.ru.is/faculty/tarmo/)
  Ruth Laos, head of the support unit
  Kristel Toom, project coordinator
  Philipp Joram, PhD student
  Cheng-Syuan Wan, PhD student
  
  Possibly further members from the Compositional Systems and Methods Lab
  (https://compose.ioc.ee) of Pawel Sobocinski

Members of the team have previously organized a number of
international events in Tallinn. They know the potential venues in the
city well. They are experienced in budgeting and running a
international conference in TCS. Niccolò Veltri was general chair of
PPDP/LOPSTR in 2021.

* Estonian Convention Bureau (https://www.ecb.ee/) supports conference
organizers with information, events to get to know venues, services
providers etc. The Tourist Board of Tallinn
(https://visittallinn.ee/eng/professional) also supports conference
organizers with their know-how. These services are free.

Enterprise Estonia supports conference organization with grants funded
by the European Regional Development Fund
(https://www.eas.ee/teenus/support-for-international-conferences/?lang=en).
The conditions of this grant scheme may be too rigid and constraining
to be useful for organizing a conference like FSCD.

The department is positive about increasing its visibility through
conference organization and is happy to offer administrative help free
of charge. The university is supportive of conference organization in
declarations, but in 2021 the university's finance office took us by
surprise by taking 15 pct of the fees we had collected as
overheads. If the university does not change their policy, we will run
FSCD through some non-profit association (we could approach, e.g., the
Estonian Mathematical Society).

For ticketing (registration, invoicing and fee collection, we plan to
use the services of the Estonia start-up Fienta
(https://fienta.com/organizer). They can handle federated conferences
with a complicated fee structure, the organizer is in control of the
setup and can change it dynamically if needed, can see the status of
all registrations at any moment. The company's commission fee on
registrations is 3.5 pct, which includes credit card transaction fees
by their providers; registrations of participants that that do not pay
(e.g., online participants) are processed for free.

* Tallinn is mainly accessible by plane via the Tallinn Lennart Meri
airport (TLL,https://www.tallinn-airport.ee/en/), which is located 4
km southeast of the city centre and connected to it by a tram line.  A
number of airlines operate routes at Tallinn airport, including
Aeroflot, airBaltic, Finnair, LOT, Lufthansa, Norwegian, Ryanair, SAS,
Swiss, Turkish and Wizz Air.

The main airline hubs to connect to Tallinn are Frankfurt (Lufthansa),
Riga (airBaltic) and Helsinki (Finnair).  Apart from connections to
Tallinn through Riga, airBaltic also has direct flights to Tallinn
from Amsterdam, Paris, Munich.

Tallinn can also be reached by ferry from Helsinki and Stockholm, and
by bus from Riga and Vilnius.

* Tallinn has an excellent municipal transportation network
(https://transport.tallinn.ee/#/en) with many bus, trolleybus and tram
lines that run frequently (many services every 6-10 mins during peak
hours) and punctually. The ticket for one ride is 1.50€.

Taxis and ride-share services are relatively cheap, especially Bolt
(https://bolt.eu/en/cities/tallinn) and Yandex
(http://yandex-taxi.ee/en/).

E.g. a ride with Bolt between the airport and the city centre
costs less than 10€.


* Suggested dates: 15-22 June or (preferably) 3-10 July.

Fri-Sat 23-24 June is a major national holiday in Estonia (Jaanipäev, St
John's = Midsummer Day).

Fri-Sun 30 June-2 July 2023 Tallinn will host the 13th Estonian Youth
Song and Dance Celebration (https://2023.laulupidu.ee/en/), an event
that is held every five years and will bring to Tallinn tens of
thousands of youth (choirs, orchestras, folk dance groups) from over
the country and abroad.

The Song and Dance Celebration is quite an attraction, a life-time
experience in fact.

(But of course it can only take place if the pandemic will subside by
spring 2023.)


To run the event in the week of 25 June-2 July 2022 is likely not
realistic since the hotels will be full of guests and participants of
the festival.


* A physical vs an online event: We plan for a hybrid event. Even if
the pandemic will be over (which we very much hope), we want that
people that cannot travel (for financial difficulty, health issues,
family situation, any other reason) can participate.

* Estimated registration fees for FSCD 2023:

Regular in-person participation: 300-400€

Student in-person participation: 150-200€

We will try to keep remote participation free of charge.

In-person workshops participation: 200-250€, or 100-150€ for FSCD
participants.

* There are many possible venues in the city that can accomodate an
event like FSCD 2023, with a suitable plenary hall and a good number
of smaller rooms for workshops, with adequate internet
connectivity. The required audiovisual equipment (also for online
streaming) and professional technical support is either available at
the venue or can ordered from a company specializing in these
services, e.g., Art Konverentsitehnika (http://artko.ee/in-english/).

Possibilities include:

- Tallinn Teacher's House (in the Old Town)
  https://opetajatemaja.ee/en/majast/
  It hosted PPDP/LOPSTR 2021.

- House of the Brotherhood of the Blackheads (in the Old Town)
  https://www.filharmoonia.ee/en/mustpeademaja
  It hosted ICFP/GPCE/TFP 2005, CADE 2005, Testcom-FATES/FORTE 2007,
  TYPES 2015.

- Kultuurikatel (just outside the Old Town)
  https://kultuurikatel.ee/en/

- Swissotel (in the city)
  https://www.swissotel.com/hotels/tallinn/
  It hosted ETAPS 2012.

Tallinn University of Technology also has appropriate facilities for
hosting the event, e.g. the Maritime Academy
(https://taltech.ee/en/estonian-maritime-academy), which hosted MFCS
2021.

* There are plenty of hotels, hostels and apartments in the city
  centre. Examples include:

Hotels:

- Kalev SPA (almost in the Old Town)
  http://kalevspa.ee/

- Meriton Old Town Garden Hotel (in the Old Town)
  https://www.meritonhotels.com/

- L'Ermitage (just outside the Old Town)
  http://www.lermitagehotel.ee/

Hostels:

- Fat Margaret's Hostel (in the Old Town)
  http://www.fatmargarets.ee/

- Tallinn Backpackers (in the Old Town)
  http://www.tallinnbackpackers.com/

Some representative prices:

Double room in Kalev SPA (including unlimited use of water park,
saunas and gym): 65€ per night.

Twin room in Fat Margaret's Hostel: 34€ per night.

* The best local restaurants specialize in modern Estonian cuisine, an
exciting fusion of Nordic and Eastern European influences.

Just some good restaurants in the city include:

- Restoran Pegasus (in the Old Town)
  https://restoranpegasus.ee/en/home/

- Restoran Moon (just outside the Old Town)
  https://restoranmoon.ee/en/

- Restoran Salt (in Kadriorg)
  https://saltrestoran.ee/

A meal at these restaurants, including main course, beverage and
dessert, would typically cost around 25€.

There are also many budget-friendly cafes and street food vendors in
and around the city centre, especially in the new Balti Jaam market
behind the central train station.

* There are many touristic and leisure activities which one can
indulge in in Tallinn during summertime.

The municipality's official tourist info site is here:

https://www.visittallinn.ee/eng

Above all there is the medieval Old Town of Tallinn with its views and
atmosphere, a UNESCO World Heritage site.

There are green spaces like the Kadriorg park or the Kadriorg-Pirita
seaside promenade.

Some attractive museums and exhibition spaces include:

- KUMU (Estonian Art) and other branches of the Estonian Art Museum 
  https://kumu.ekm.ee/en/
  
- Estonian Open Air Museum
  (rural buildings from different parts of the country)
  https://evm.ee/eng/home

- Seaplane Harbour
  https://meremuuseum.ee/lennusadam/en/

- Patarei Prison (crimes of communism)
  https://patareiprison.org/en/

- Fotografiska (photography)
  https://www.fotografiska.com/tallinn/in-english/

The Telliskivi and Noblessner areas, which are at a walking distance
from Tallinn's Old Town, offer plenty of restaurants, bars and clubs.

Tallinn has a number of water parks and swimming pools, which always
include traditional Estonian saunas. Entry fees are friendly.

There are a couple of nice beaches in the city (Pirita, Stroomi,
Kakumäe), easily reachable by public transportation.

Estonia is a well-recognized hub for craft beer. There are many good
pubs and tap rooms scattered around Tallinn's city centre.

