----------------------------------------------------------------------- 
26th International Conference on Rewriting, Techniques and
Applications (RTA 2015)

13th International Conference on Typed Lambda Calculi and Applications
(TLCA 2015)

Minutes on the Business Meeting - July 1st, 2015, 2pm (Warsaw, Poland)

Chair: Gilles Dowek
Secretary: Ugo Dal Lago
----------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Agenda:

    1. Report from the organisers and from RDP, RTA PC and TLCA PC. 
    2. Proposal for a new conference. 
    3. The new conference's SC.
    4. Announcement of the new conference(s) in 2016.
    5. Proposals for 2017.
    6. RTA General Assembly.
----------------------------------------------------------------------- 

1. Report from the organisers and from RDP, RTA PC and TLCA PC.

   A. Report on the organisation of RDP 2015 (by Alesky Schubert)
   
   Some statistical information about the conference has been given
   by Aleksy Schubert (see attached slides), including numbers about
   the last four RDP editions, the distribution of attendants over
   days and countries, etc.

   The audience raised no questions.
 
   B. Report from the RTA 2015 PC (by Maribel Fernandez)
  
   Some information about the RTA 2015 PC has been given by Maribel
   Fernandez (see attached slides), including the list of PC and SC
   members, statistics about submissions, best paper awards, etc.

   The following questions and observations were raised by the audience:
   - Johannes Waldmann observed that the best paper awards should be
     made public, and Fernandez replied that this year's best
     paper award is mentioned in the proceedings.
   - Aleksy Schubert asked which policy is followed when deciding
     when to have best paper's presentations. Fernandez replied that
     there are no such policy.

   C. Report from the TLCA 2015 PC (by Thorsten Altenkirch)
   
   Some information about the TLCA 2015 PC has been given by Thorsten
   Altenkirch (see attached slides), including the list of PC members,
   statistics, etc.

   There were no questions from the audience.
    
2. Proposal for a new conference.

   Kristoffer Rose a Pawel Urzyczyn presented the proposal for a new
   conference, called "Foundational Structures in Computation and
   Deduction". Most important information: 
   - The general assembly of RTA and TLCA, at VSL 2014, strongly
     suggested to go to a new conference concept, which should 
     include, in terms of scope, both RTA and TLCA.
   - The two steering committees worked very hard since VSL 2014,
     and ended up in proposals for a title, a list of topics
     and some bylaws, which have been made public before RDP 2015.
   - The proposal should be taken as open, and subject to 
     modification, as decided by the new conference's SC.
   - We are voting on the following issue: do we want to make a step
     forward and have a larger conference?  

   The audience asked the following questions:
   - Grigore Rosu asked where does FSCD come from, and Rose replied
     that it comes from the name of a course by GÃ©rard Huet. The name
     was suggested by Pierre-Louis Curien.
   - Someone in the audience asked whether the new conference will
     publish its proceedings at LIPIcs. Urzyczyn replied that both
     TLCA and RTA currently publish at LIPIcs, and that the intention
     is to terminate these two agreements, and start a new one for
     FSCD, lasting five years. Rose asked whether voting about this
     issue is a good idea. Jean-Pierre Jouannaud replied that probably
     this is not a good idea: better to avoid voting and revoting
     on the same issues.
   - Urzyczyn shared the content of three emails about the new
     conference he received, by Richard Statman, Moshe Vardi, and a
     third one. All of them are positive and encouraging.
   - Andy Polonsky asked whether the title of the conference could be
     changed. Rose replied that the name is now fixed, but could be
     changed by the SC. Jakob Rehof commented that the title issue is
     fairly heavyweight: the intention is not to change the name too
     often.
      
   The first vote has been on the following: should the FSCD proposal
   need a 2/3 or a 1/2 majority to be approved? Results are as follows:
     - 61 voted for 2/3;
     - 6 voted for 1/3;
     - 8 abstained.
   A majority of 2/3 is then needed.

   Some further discussion then happened:
   - Jurgen Giesl proposed to proceed by secret rather than public 
     voting. Rose replied that they were thinking about a public 
     vote, and Giesl disagreed.
   - Herman Geuvers asked how the FSCD SC is composed. Rose replied
     that the proposed bylaws are indeed quite precise as for how
     the SC is formed and elected, and that the issue would have
     been discussed later.
   - Barbara Morawska said she is also in favour of secret voting.

   The second vote has been on the following: should we vote for the
   main ballot secretly or publicly? Results are as follows:
     - 38 voted for going secretly;
     - 22 voted for going publicly;
     - 9 abstained.
   The vote for the main ballot is to be secret.

   The third vote has been on the main ballot:

       It is the will of the participants of RDP 2015 gathered at the
       Business Meeting on July 1, 2015, to terminate the RTA and TLCA
       conferences and introduce from 2016 on a new conference called

           Formal Structures for Computation and Deduction (FSCD)

        The scope of FSCD is intended to include and significantly
        expand the subject areas of RTA and TLCA. The initial list
        of~topics in the FSCD Proposal is by no means exhaustive
        and~will evolve over time. The FSCD SC will revise the initial
        FSCD Rules and will submit a final proposal after two years.

   Results are as follows:
     - 65 voted "yes";
     - 12 voted "no";
     - 3 abstained.
   The new conference FSCD is then established.

3. FSCD Steering Committee
  
   - Pawel Urzyczyn explained the rules for the formation of the FSCD.
     In particular, there are two members coming from the RTA SC,
     which will be elected in the RTA General Assembly, to be done
     later in this BM.
   - Among the SC's duties is to decide whether to go with LIPIcs
     or not. Urzyczyn asked for comments on that. Gabriel Scherer
     said that TLCA being open access is crucial. Georg Moser mentioned
     the fact that going towards LIPIcs was quite a long process, and 
     that he would hardly revert this decision.
   - Another duty the FSCD newly formed SC needs to take care of is the
     issue of the best paper award, which RTA traditionally had.
   - Another crucial issue is publicity: Urzyczyn remarked that
     placing FSCD at the right place from the very beginning is
     going to be vital. Comments came from:
       * Jean-Pierre Jouannaud, on the necessity of being publicly 
         announced on the ACM and ICALP channels. 
       * Aleksy Schubert, on the necessity of having sort of a
         manifesto sent to the usual mailing lists, preferably
         immediately after summer
       * Pierre-Louis Curien, who suggested to have new subjects
         explicitly mentioned in the first CfP.
       * Grigore Rosu, who insisted on the necessity to have a strong
         set of invited speakers already at FSCD 2016.
       * Johannes Waldmann, who said he wants to have not only invited
         speakers from new subjects, but also from traditional ones,
         like rewriting. Rose replied that it is the new SC which
         is charge of that.
       * Sam Staton asked whether any ACM affiliation is planned.
         Rose replied that there has been an offer from SIGPLAN.

4. FSCD 2016 
  
   A. Scientific Matters

   Brigitte Pientka and Delia Kesner, PC co-chairs for FSCD 2016, presented
   some information about FSCD 2016 (see attached slides), and asked for
   comments and questions.
   - Hans Zantema asked about PC member submissions; after some
     discussion Pientka said that they will adhere to FSCD bylaws, 
     which say that PC chairs cannot submit papers, and that
     PC members could (but their submissions should be measured with
     higher standards).
   - Gabriel Scherer asked whether an artifact evaluation committee
     will be put in place, and Pientka said that it would be
     difficult, and time consuming.
   - Kaustuv Chaudhuri suggests to extend the "higher standard"
     constraint to subreviewer's submission. Pientka replied
     negatively, saying that the kind of reviewing process FSCD 
     will adopt is different than the one of POPL or ICFP. Thorsten 
     Altenkirch said that this would be anyway be unfeasible (finding 
     subreviewers is hard anyway).
   - Jean-Pierre Jouannaud said that he is skeptical about
     author-response periods and, and that subreviewers should not
     intervene in the discussion.
   - Martin Hofmann said that he, instead, is very happy with
     author-response, and Pientka agreed.
   - Johannes Waldmann asked whether seeing other reviews as a subreviewers
     would be possible. Pientka answered positively, provided anonymisation
     is possible. Jouannaud said that he would keep interaction with 
     subreviewers to a minimum.
   - Peter Dybjer said that he is strongly in favour of the author-
     response period.
   
   B. Organization Matters
 
   Sandra Alves, OC chair for FSCD 2016, presented some information
   about dates, venue, location, etc. (see attached slides), and asked
   for comments and questions. 

5. FSCD 2017 - Proposals
 
   Sam Staton presented a proposal to co-locate FSCD 2017 with ICFP
   2017, which will take place in Oxford, UK (see attached slides). The
   dates would be 3-6 September. The following questions and remarks
   have been asked:
   - Michele Pagani said that the proposed dates would be a plus, because 
     submission dates would be compatible with the ones of LICS.
   - Georg Moser asked about registration costs, and Sam Staton replied
     that they would be similar to the ones of similar conferences: around
     350 pounds.
   - Jean-Pierre Jouannaud said that the (submission) dates would be
     between the ones of LICS and CSL.

   Maribel Fernandez presented a proposal to have FSCD 2017 at
   Montevideo, Uruguay (see attached slides), any date in July 
   2017. ISR 2017 could take the place in Montevideo, as well.
   The following questions were posed:
   - Kristoffer Rose asked what's the size of the biggest room,
     and Fernandez replied that there should be rooms with at 
     least 250 seats.
 
   The following comments and questions have been later posed:
   - Johannes Waldmann asked about the possibility to have ISR 2017 in
     Oxford, in case FSCD takes place there, too.  Sam Staton does not
     know, but is optimistic.  
   - Thorsten Altenkirch, Pierre-Louis Curien and Simona Ronchi said
     they have mixed feelings: on the one hand, Montevideo looks good,
     but on the other it would be better to stay close to Europe.
   - Many people (Lutz Strassburger, Georg Moser, Jean-Pierre Jouannaud)
     said that it would be crucial to have FSCD always at the same time
     of the year, from the very beginning. Others, like Michele Pagani, 
     said that having FSCD 2017 in September would increase the number 
     of submissions.
  
   The fourth vote is a proposal to the SC about FSCD 2017: should it
   be held in Oxford, UK or Montevideo, Uruguay. Results are as follows:
   - 18 voted for Montevideo
   - 33 voted for Oxford
   - 19 were neutral
   
   After the votes, there were a few comments:
   - Sam Staton said that having FSCD earlier could be discussed, but
     Aleksy Schubert said that he would prefer to co-locate with
     ICFP.
   - Delia Kesner said that she thinks that keeping strong links with
     south-american universities and research institutions is important.

6. RTA General Assembly.
  
   A. RTA Steering Committee Election.
   
   Candidates are Santiago Escobar, Narciso Marti Oliet, and RenÃ© Thiemann. 
   Everyone voted, secretly, for two candidates. Results are as follows:
   - Escobar: 21
   - Marti-Oliet: 3
   - Thiemann: 38
  
   Escobar and Thiemann are then elected.

   B. RTA Bylaws Change.
   
   Following an earlier vote today, we need to change RTA's bylaws
   adding the following article 0:

   0. The RTA conference is being cancelled. All obligations in the
      following paragraphs are cancelled if they pertain to activity
      after December 31st, 2015. In case of conflict between this
      paragraph and the remaining paragraphs, this paragraph takes
      precedence.

   Results are as follows:
   - Yes: 28
   - No: 1
   - Abstain: 4

   Article 0 is then added to RTA's bylaws.
